## Reading Response1 :open_book:

### Journey
Data has experienced long ”journey” and changes in its neighbors and street areas in the “room”, a linguistic vector map. Data born from theology and religious studies, first defined as a gift given by God. Then it grows in the mathematics field and is raised by computers and modern technology. Also, it keeps touching the philosophy and humanity field. What I find the journey specific is that it’s not a normal journey that our main character “data” explore the scenery on its way and then pass by. “Data” keeps inviting the “sceneries”, great and relative things in the fields, into its team and continue the journey together. It’s not “data” moving in the room,  instead, it’s words from other street areas gathering towards “data”, becoming its neighbors and reorganizing themselves. 

### Data's possible future neighbors
“Human” and “art” which were first described as “apart from” data might be its neighbors in the future because data science is more mature and diverse nowadays. Data are used extensively as powerful information and records in anthropological research such as The Human Project ([link here](https://www.thehumanproject.org/)). “Art” goes to the artists who recreate data, data visualization, etc. Modern concepts like “Metaverse” might get close to it because the visual world is built based on data. And It’s a new world under exploring, the developing process needs data from both the users and producers. “Prediction” and “productivity” might be its neighbors as well because data is used as tools and works with algorithms.

### Data “bias”
I understand data “bias” as a phenomenon caused by some data selections that don’t reflect the real world or reflect prejudices in the real world. For example, there appear inserted ads when people go through posts on Twitter, Instagram, or Weibo. The content of the ads differs based on the profile people edit when signing up for the platforms. Females are more likely to receive ads related to plastic surgery and cosmetics, correspondingly, males receive more ads introducing ways to prevent hair loss. In terms of video ads, females may receive more recommendations of Korean dramas, and males may receive clips from war films. The bias comes from the platforms’ former user data analysis results. The data reflect that a large number of users who select females in the profile search for cosmetics and draw the conclusion: “Females” are interested in “cosmetics”. Here data reduces the selection of other females, neglecting the other items searched and making part of people who search for cosmetics represent all females. 

