## Reading Response2 :open_book:

### The Online Data Visualization
I’d like to discuss the visualization of the (mis)representation of women in news headlines ([link here](https://pudding.cool/2022/02/women-in-headlines/)), one visual essay from Pudding. 

This project visualized the language used in women-centered headlines analyzed from the database of 382,139 headlines published between 2005 and 2021 by the top English-language news publications and news agencies in four countries: the US, India, South Africa, and the UK.

First, they claim 1,231 unique words most frequently used in headlines that report about women. Then their main part visualization is different bar charts with lines on them to tell how frequent a female-related word appears in the country’s news headlines. For example, the use of the word “Muslim” is shown in one chart, then black lines that represent the frequency of “Muslim” in each country’s female-centered reports show their order in all 1231 words. A higher line in the India bar than the US bar means the word is more highly ranked in Indian news than American news. I think their selection step of displaying the most-used 1231 words shows the project’s rationality and objectivity. I appreciate that they didn’t “pick” 1231 words that they think are female-centered. This selection, though having avoided bias on the word meaning, still appears as “the god trick” that the viewer positions themselves from very far away and see everything ideally, but since the “number” of the publications they analyze and the question “How to define a women-centered report?” exist, “the god trick” remains a partial perspective. From my perspective, the analyze and visualization way is unemotional because bar chart and lines are clean and clear without too much addition and persuation such as colors or other icons. However, the charts of the specific words that the project picked to show, their choice, is emotional, depending on what they want the readers to focus on. Charts of word “SUE”, “BLACK” and “MAN” are showed, raising feminism topics of legal rights, racism, showing the writer’s concern and expression.

